<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-33" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 class="normal">CHAPTER XXXIII<br/>
<span class="medium">SUCCESS</span></h2>
<p class="cap">H<span class="small1">owever</span> much cause I may have at some
future date to complain of severe criticism,
I have certainly no complaint up to the
present against any connected with the making of
books. Some half a dozen lines of work were submitted
to publishers, and three times I received
letters with a view to publication, which, of course,
failed through the want of friends to assist me.
Knowing how rough and unequal the work was, and
that critics could find—if so inclined—plenty to
justify extreme severity, has undeceived me as to
my former unreasonable opinion, that critics were
more prone to cavil than to praise. I would like
it to be understood that I say this without bidding
for any future indulgence; for I am thankful to any
man who will show me my faults, and am always
open to advice.</p>
<p>As I have said, the first notice appeared in a
leading daily paper, a full column, in which I saw
myself described, a rough sketch of the ups and
downs of my life, in short telling sentences, with
quotations from my work. The effect of this was
almost instantaneous, for correspondence immediately
followed. Letters came by every post. Of
course, all my thoughts had been concentrated on
the reading world, so that I was much surprised
when two young men came to the house and requested
a photo for an illustrated paper. I could
not oblige them at that moment, but with a heart
overflowing with gratitude was persuaded to accompany
them at once to the nearest photographer,
now that interest was at its high point. "Now,"
said one of these young men, when I was on my
way with them, delighted with this mission—"now,
if you could give me a few lines on the war in the
East, to go with your photograph, it would be of
much greater interest to the public." Not caring
to blow the froth off my mind in this indifferent
manner, and feeling too conscientious to take advantage
of public interest by writing in such haste,
which, to tell the truth, appeared a difficult task—I
quickly turned the subject to other matters,
thinking he would soon forget his request. But it
was of no use; for, every other step or two, he
wanted to be informed whether I was concentrating
my mind on the war. At last, being under the
impression that my natural reserve and feeble attempts
at conversation would lead him to believe
that something was being done in that direction, I
made a great effort to become voluble, and, I
believe, succeeded until the photograph was taken.
When I left him, his last question was—"What
about the war?"</p>
<p>The next morning, after the last mentioned
episode, being Sunday, I was enjoying a stroll
through the city, which is so very quiet on this one
morning of the week; and was thinking of nothing
else but my own affairs, more especially of the
photo that was soon to appear. The street was
forsaken, with the exception—yes, there they were:
two men with a camera, and both of them looking
my way, anxiously awaiting my approach. "This,"
I said to myself, "is fame with a vengeance." I
felt a little mortification at being expected to undergo
this operation in the public streets. One of
these photographers quickly stepped forward to
meet me, and, smiling blandly, requested me kindly
to stand for a moment where I was. It certainly
shocked and mortified me more to learn that they
desired to photograph an old fashioned dwelling
of brick and mortar, and that they considered my
presence as no adornment to the front.</p>
<p>A few days after this first review, a critic of
fine literature, who had interested himself privately
on my behalf, sent a notice to a weekly literary
paper; and it was the respect due to this man's
name that drew the attention of some other papers
of good standing, for their representatives mentioned
this man's name with every respect, knowing, at
the same time, that he would not waste his hours on
what was absolutely worthless.</p>
<p>What kind hearted correspondents I had, and
what offers they made, what questions they asked!
and all of them received grateful answers—with
one exception. This gentleman, who did not
require a book, presumably being more interested
in the strange conditions under which I had lived
and worked, offered me a pleasant home in the
country, where I could cultivate my talents surrounded
with a little more comfort and quieter
scenes. The letter was long, delightful, poetical,
and worked warmly on my imagination, sentence
for sentence; until the last sentence came like a
douche of cold water on a warm body—"Of course,"
finished this gentleman, "it is necessary to supply me
with strict references as to honesty and respectability."
Where was I to get these? after having
failed to get a library form signed, which would
entitle me to borrow books. No doubt the manager
of the Farmhouse would have willingly done the
latter, as was afterwards done by him, but I was
then under the impression that the keeper of a
lodging house was ineligible for such a purpose,
knowing this to have been the case elsewhere.
Where could I obtain these references, seeing that
I knew no one who would take the responsibility
of doing such a petty kindness as signing a library
form? This gentleman's letter, I need scarcely say,
remained unanswered, for which, I believe, none
will blame me.</p>
<p>Several other letters were received, which I found
extremely difficult to answer. One addressed me
familiarly in rhyme, beginning—"Dear brother poet,
brother Will;" and went on to propose that we
two should take a firm stand together, side by side,
to the everlasting benefit of poetry and posterity.</p>
<p>Another had written verse, and would be glad to
find a publisher, and another could, and would, do
me many a good turn, if I felt inclined to correct
his work, and to add lines here and there as needed.
Not for a moment would I hold these people to
ridicule, but it brought to mind that I was without
a publisher for my own work, and I believed, in all
sincerity, that better work than mine might go begging,
as it often had.</p>
<p>In the main my correspondents were kind, sympathetic
and sensible, making genuine offers of
assistance, for which I thanked them with all my
heart, but thought myself now beyond the necessity
of accepting them.</p>
<p>As a matter of fact, no one man in a common
lodging house is supposed to be regarded with any
special favour. The common kitchen is his library,
his dining room and his parlour, and better accommodation
cannot be expected at the low price of
fourpence per night. We are all equal, without a
question of what a man's past may have been, or
what his future is likely to realise. Any man who
puts on superior airs is invariably subjected to this
sarcastic enquiry—"How much do you pay?" or
the incontrovertible remark that one man's fourpence
is as good as another's. The Manager has
to use great tact in not indulging in too long a conversation
with one particular man, and a lodger
must not jeopardise his popularity by an overweening
anxiety to exchange civilities, or to repose
confidence in those who are in authority; for these
lodgers are in general distrustful and suspicious.
If a fish porter—a good number of these men were
here—was warned after any misconduct, he would
turn to one of his pals and say—"Billingsgate, I
see, is not favoured in this place." And if a paper-seller—of
which there were about an equal number—was
called to account in the same way, his remark
would be that had he been a fish porter the misconduct
would have been overlooked. Such was
the state of feeling in the Farmhouse, although the
caretaker, time after time, almost daily, reiterated
the remark that one man was as good as another,
and that no distinction was made between the two
classes. Knowing this state of feeling, and the
child-like distrust and jealousy of these honest fellows,
it was no wonder that I felt a little awkward
at the change of circumstances; for, after all, I
was still a lodger, and paying no more than them
for the same conveniences. In spite of this, I don't
believe I suffered the least in popularity when the
Manager, determined that I should not suffer any
longer for want of privacy to pursue my aims, threw
open his own private rooms for my convenience.
And, every time I took advantage of his kindness,
the Manager's wife would take advantage of this
by supplying a hot dinner or tea, as the hour might
be, so that my studies might not be interrupted,
or food postponed through an anxiety to perform a
certain task.</p>
<p>The Manager was astonished at my success, and,
after he had read several notices, it certainly must
have made him bitter against those whom he had
approached on my behalf. "Yes," he said, "I must
confess to failure, in your case, and I am left wondering
as to what kind of cases these people consider
worthy of assistance." The man, being in
a subordinate position, dare not openly speak his
thoughts, or appear to force the hands of those rich
visitors, but he certainly lost no opportunity in showing
some honest Irish blood in his references to
the Charity Organisation. "Miss So and So has
been here," said he, one morning; "and I lost no
time in relating your experience with the Charity
Organisation. She was very much offended and
shocked, and she has now gone there to seek some
explanation." "As for that," I answered, knowing
these people had all the power to make good their
own case, and that I would not be called upon to
sift the false from the true—"As for that, this lady
will return satisfied, as you will see." The Manager
did not altogether believe this, saying that he
thought the lady in question was not a blind believer
in anything, and had an unusual amount of
common sense. She certainly did return satisfied,
saying that she thought they were justified in their
conduct, to a certain extent. On being questioned
by the Manager, who claimed it justice that the
truth should be known, she said that she dare not
make public the sayings and doings of the Society.
I am now giving my experiences honestly and
truthfully, and thought for thought, if not word for
word, as they happened. As a man whose ambition
above all other things is to impress every one favourably,
I have come to the conclusion that my work
has been praised far more than its worth, owing
to having met the writers of some of those articles,
and impressing them in a simple, honest way. I
am writing these experiences with a full knowledge
of human nature, knowing that many people will
remark: "Take no heed of that man, for he has
not a good word for any one or anything;" but,
as far as my knowledge and experience goes it is
the truth, and, if that seems false and sensational,
it is no fault of mine. Certainly I have led a worthless,
wandering and lazy life, with, in my early
days, a strong dislike to continued labour, and incapacitated
from the same in later years. No person
seemed inclined to start me on the road to fame,
but, as soon as I had made an audacious step or
two, I was taken up, passed quickly on from stage
to stage, and given free rides farther than I expected.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
