<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 class="normal">CHAPTER XII<br/>
<span class="medium">THIEVES</span></h2>
<p class="cap">C<span class="small1">ockney More</span> was a cattleman, hailing
from the port of Baltimore. He was a born
thief and, strange to say, nearly blind; but
without doubt, he was a feeler of the first magnitude.
If he borrowed a needle, and the said article was
honestly returned, it behoved the lender, knowing
the borrower's thievish propensities, to carefully examine
it to see that the eye had not been abstracted;
for, as Donovan remarked—"Cockney More could
steal the milk out of one's tea."</p>
<p>When I have looked at Cockney's long thin fingers,
I have often wondered whether he had power to
disjoint them at will, letting them down the legs
of his trousers to rummage the locality, while he
stood innocently talking to us with his hands in his
pockets. That honour which is supposed to exist
among thieves, was not known to Cockney More,
for he would rob his best friend, and do it in such a
way that no man could take umbrage. For instance,
six of us had landed in Liverpool, having been paid
off that morning. Cockney, knowing the ins and
outs of that city, and its numerous pitfalls for
strangers, escorted us at once to a cheap lodging-house,
where we paid in advance for a week's bed,
thus being assured of shelter until the ship was
ready to return. The next morning we sat six disconsolate
men in the lodging-house kitchen, not one
of us having the price of his breakfast. Cockney,
being the last to rise, entered at last, and noting
our despondent looks enquired as to the cause. On
being told he went out and returned in a few moments
with tea, sugar, bread and sausages. In fact,
he continued these kind deeds during our week ashore.
The others, being mostly strangers, blessed him for
a good fellow, but it occurred to me that he was
simply returning us our own, for he spent three times
more money during those few days than he had received
for the trip.</p>
<p>I remembered a mean little trick that he had
performed on one of the cattlemen that very first
morning ashore. True, we were all getting drunk
fast, but I never thought Cockney would be daring
enough to attempt such a deed in our first stage of
intoxication. He had asked this cattleman for a
chew of tobacco and the man had generously offered
him the whole plug to help himself. Cockney took
this plug and, biting off a piece, returned the bitten
part to the owner, and himself pocketed the plug.
I was speechless with astonishment at seeing this:
and more so when the strange cattleman innocently
received the bitten part, and put it in his pocket
without having perceived anything wrong.</p>
Cockney and myself were on the best of terms, and
yet, some time previous to the above episode, he had
served me a trick which ought to have severed our
friendship for ever. I was at the shipping office and
had that morning signed for a trip to London.
"Have you sufficient tobacco, and a spoon, knife, fork
and plate?" enquired Cockney. "Yes," I replied,
"and I have also a new pack of cards, so that we
may enjoy our leisure hours aboard." Cockney was
pleased to hear this, although he was not to accompany
me on this trip. "Let me see them," said
he. This I did and being, as I have said, nearly
blind, he took them to the window for examination,
but returned them almost immediately. Then came
a shout for all men who had signed for the London
trip, and, hastily wishing Cockney and others good-bye,
I left the office. On the second day out we were
all at leisure for an hour or more, and enquiries
went around as to who had a pack of cards. My
cards were at once produced and, taking partners,
we were about to settle to a little enjoyment. Alas,
when my cards were taken out of the new case, they
were found to be a dirty, greasy old pack with several
missing, and, of course, card playing was out
of the question. I at once knew what had happened:
Cockney had substituted these old ones for the new,
what time he pretended to be interested at the window.
That little trick meant twelve days' misery
for eight men, for we could not get another pack
until we landed in London.</p>
<p>On that trip, when I had the pleasure of Cockney's
company, we had with us Donovan who, as a thief,
certainly ran Cockney a good second. The truth
of the matter is that all cattlemen are thieves, and
the one who complains of going ashore without his
razor, often has in his possession another's knife,
comb or soap. On the second day out I missed my
pocket-knife and, without loss of time boldly accused
Cockney More to his face, telling him that however
much I admired his dexterity in other people's pockets
I had not the least suspicion that he would be
guilty of such a trick on an old pal. "No more
have I," said he. "What kind of knife was it?"
On being told, he advised me to say no more about
it, and that he would endeavour to find it. He
succeeded in doing so, and the next day Donovan
was shouting indignantly—"Who has been to my
bunk and stolen a knife?" After this I lost my
soap, but did not think it worth while mentioning
such a petty loss. On approaching Cockney More
for the loan of his, he—giving me strict injunctions
to return it at once, and not leave it exposed to the
eyes of thieves—lent me my own soap.</p>
<p>This trip was a memorable one, and no doubt
Cockney made the best haul of his life. We were
together in Liverpool, Cockney, Donovan and myself,
and as usual drinking. A stranger, hearing
by our conversation that we hailed from America,
invited us to drink; and in the course of conversation
expressed a regret that he was out of work, and
had no means of visiting America. "Nothing is
easier," said Cockney, "if you place yourself unreservedly
in our hands. We are to sail on Thursday,
and I can stow you away, as I have successfully
done with others." "Many thanks," replied
the other, and so it was agreed.</p>
<p>On the following Thursday we went aboard, the
Cockney carrying a large bag which contained the
stowaway's clothes, etc. When the ship's officers
entered our forecastle the stowaway was, of course,
not present, but when they were searching other
places, the stowaway was then sitting comfortably
among us, these things being well managed by Cockney
More. After this search they would pay us
no more visits, and the stowaway was safe, and
could go on deck at night for fresh air. The only
danger now was to land him in America. This, the
Cockney affirmed, was a danger of little account.</p>
<p>Now, as I have said, this stowaway had a bag,
and Cockney More and Donovan were great thieves.
Therefore, it was not at all surprising to hear that
the poor fellow was soon without a second shirt to
his back. He had lent me a book, the value of
which I did not think him capable of appreciating,
and I had made up my mind that it should not be
returned until asked for. But when I heard him
complain of losing so many things, through pity I
became honest and returned it. But where was his
watch and chain, his brushes, and where were his
clothes, his tools, razor, strop, and many other useful
articles? All these things were in possession of
Donovan, and Cockney knew it and appeared to be
grieving over lost chances; for he was supposed to
have that honour which is among thieves, and as
Donovan had been too fast for him, he had no other
option than to sit quiet under the circumstances.</p>
<p>On the day before our arrival at Baltimore, I
happened to enter the forecastle and found Donovan,
his face pale, feverously rummaging Cockney More's
bunk. "What do you think?" said he. "That
blasted Cockney has robbed me of everything."
And so he had. He had allowed Donovan to do all
the dirty work, of abstracting the goods one by one,
as the chance occurred; he had allowed him the
pleasure of their care and possession for many days,
and then he had robbed him. But the artful part
of the business was this: he had not left Donovan
any chance to recover the goods, for he had made
friends with one of the sailors—the latter having
a forecastle to themselves—and had prevailed on
that person to take charge of a parcel for him until
all the cattlemen landed; "for," said he, "these
cattlemen are born thieves." Yes, he had done the
business neatly, for the desperate and much aggrieved
Donovan who intended on landing to recover
the goods by force, saw Cockney More walk
ashore as empty-handed as himself, and he was almost
shaken in his belief that the said Cockney was,
after all, the thief triumphant.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
