<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-21" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 class="normal">CHAPTER XXI<br/>
<span class="medium">LONDON</span></h2>
<p class="cap">S<span class="small1">itting</span> at home, thinking of future employment,
manual labour being now out of the
question, it was then for the first time that
I expressed gratitude for my old grandmother's
legacy, which, on my home coming from the States
had been reduced from ten shillings to eight shillings
per week. In the past it had been sniffed at and
scorned, being called several ill-natured names, such
as "a week's tobacco," "a day's grub," or "an evening's
booze without cigars." I had been very bitter,
on the reading of her will, that the property
had not come into my hands, to sell or retain, spend
or save; but a little common sense now told me
that if such had been the case I would, at the present
time, have been without either property or income,
and had been so less than twelve months after her
death. The old lady, no doubt, had noted my wildness,
and to save me the temptation to squander
my brother's share, who was incapable of taking
charge of his own affairs, and whose share I must
have ill managed, after the passing of my own she
had wisely left this property to remain in the hands
of a trustee, which now turned out as lucky for myself
as for my brother.</p>
<p>I was now more content with my lot, determined
that as my body had failed, my brains should now
have the chance they had longed for, when the spirit
had been bullied into submission by the body's activity.</p>
<p>It was now the middle of Summer, and daily I
sat dreaming, reading, and occasionally writing in
a leafy bower in the garden. I could now dispense
with crutches, having just received from London
an artificial limb, and on this was practising, taking
short walks at night, with a success that was gratifying.
A far different Klondyke had opened up before
my eyes, which corresponded with the dreams
of my youth. I pictured myself returning home,
not with gold nuggets from the far West, but with
literary fame, wrested from no less a place than the
mighty London. This secret was never divulged to
my people, and, in the after years, this reticence
saved them from many a pang of disappointment,
and freed me from many an awkward question. Determined
to lose no time in the conquest of that
city, which I expected would be surrendered to me
some time within twelve months, I began, without
wasting more time in dreams, to make preparations
for this journey. Alas! how many greater men
failed in a lifetime at this attempt, although they
now stand triumphant in death, holding in their
spiritual hands the freedom and keys of the whole
world's cities!</p>
<p>With a cotton shirt, a pair of stockings and a handkerchief
in a brown paper parcel, and the sum of
two pounds in my pocket, after the expense of train
fare, I started for London, filled to the brim with
the aforesaid designs. My failure in the States,
and again in Canada, had made me a little more
chary with my confidence, but I was not in the least
the less optimistic. My first dreams were, and are,
my best. I scorn clothes and jewellery; I would
rather take a free country walk, leaving the roads
for the less trodden paths of the hills and the lanes,
than ride in a yacht or a coach; I would rather see
the moon in the ruins than the gaslight of an assembly
room; gluttony I despise, and drink is seldom
taken except at the invitation of other eyes: then
what, in the name of everything we know, would be
to me the silver and gold of all Alaska!</p>
<p>I arrived in London early the following morning,
and at once made my way towards Lambeth. Early
that night, being tired with the exertion of an unusually
long day, I went seeking for lodgings in
Blackfriars Road, and, seeing several signs that
claimed to accommodate working men with good
clean beds at sixpence per night, entered one of these
establishments, paid the amount demanded, and was
then ushered into a long kitchen, preferring to sit
and smoke for an hour before retiring for the night.
Some thirty or forty men were in this kitchen, but
the British Workman had either not yet arrived,
was out drinking his pint, or had gone early to bed.
This was not by any means my first experience in
England of lodging houses, for I had been forced to
live in similar places on my visits in cattle ships
from America; but I certainly did not like the look
of this place, where no sign of authority was to be
seen, and which seemed to be entirely left to the
control of these noisy men. Some of these lodgers
had been old soldiers, had just received their pensions—the
accumulation of three months. A number
of them were bringing in cans of beer, and the
kitchen was in an uproar. Many of them were too
drunk to perform this task, but were sufficiently
sober to sit awake and give money and orders to
others, and there was no lack of willing hands to
bring them what they required. I left the kitchen
at once, determined to seek another place, without
troubling the landlady to refund my money. As I
left the kitchen, two drunken men began to fight;
others interfered, and this fight threatened to become
an all round affair. When I had reached the
top of the stairs, feeling my way in the dark, I found
the landlady standing at the office door. Seeing
me, as I was about to pass her, she said, in a voice
which was the worse for drink—"So you want to
go to bed? Here, Jim, show this gentleman to
his bed." Jim obeyed, a small, pale-faced child,
whom I mechanically followed up two flights of
stairs, which were better lighted than those leading
to the kitchen, which was in the basement of the
house. He then showed me into a room where
there were a number of beds, and, pointing to one,
said—"You are number forty-five," when he left the
room. Many of the beds already contained sleepers.
I sat down on the edge of mine, wondering
if there would be any disturbance in the night,
whether any of these men would take a fancy to
my clothes, or in the dark were likely to rummage
their contents. The man in the next bed coughed,
and then, turning towards me, said gently—"The
beds are good, I admit, but that is about all you
can say of this house." Second voice, not far away:
"You've come to a good house, you have, and yer
don't know it." First voice: "If I hadn't been
drunk last night and got chucked out of Rowton's,
I wouldn't, on any account, be here." A third
voice, distant, but loud and angry: "Give over,
will yer: when are you coves going to sleep? I ain't
done any labour for three weeks, and now as I've
got a chance at four in the mornin', blow me if I
ain't robbed of my slumber. Take care I don't set
about yer at once, yer blooming lot of bleeders. If
I come arter yer body, yer'll know it, and no mistake
about it, either." No more was said after this.
I at once made up my mind to try Rowton House
on the following day. That they had refused this
man a bed owing to his being drunk, and, more than
likely, quarrelsome in drink, was a strong recommendation
to me after my experience here, where it
would be impossible to either read, write or think,
or to even partake of my meals in comfort.</p>
<p>The following morning, after having had breakfast
at an eating house, I enquired for Rowton
House, and when the first person I addressed asked
which one I wanted, I answered him—"the nearest
one." This proved to be in Newington Butts and,
after receiving instructions, I proceeded accordingly,
and was soon standing outside that place, where I
was to remain for two years, without in the least impressing
London. To my surprise, I found this
house to be a fine large block of red buildings, with
an imposing front, and a fine entrance, polished and
clean; and, facing its many front windows, was
an old church tower and clock, set in an old leafy
churchyard that had stones for the dead and a number
of wooden seats for the living.</p>
<p>On making an application for a bed, I learnt that
this could not be granted until nine o'clock in the
evening, but was courteously allowed the privilege
of remaining indoors until that time. This place
surprised me by its accommodation of dining rooms,
library, sitting rooms, baths, lavatories, etc., all being
kept clean and in thorough good order by a
large staff of men, its charge being sixpence per
night.</p>
On making my way into the library, and seeing
two large cases of books, one containing fiction, and
the other being enriched by the poets, historians,
essayists, with biography and miscellaneous literature,
and hearing how quiet this room was, in spite
of the presence of over a hundred men, I at once
made up my mind to pay a week's lodgings down,
indifferent whether the sleeping accommodation was
good or bad. This I did at nine o'clock, after
which I sat sometimes reading the paper, and again
watching the faces of this mixed assembly. Some
of them were of refined appearance, with their silk
hats, their frock coats, cuffs and collars, and spoke
in voices subdued and gentle. Some of them were
of such a prosperous appearance that no doubt I
had already passed them in the street, thinking they
were either merchants or managers of great concerns;
and, more likely than not, the paper boys had followed
on their heels, and the cabmen had persistently
hailed them.</p>
<p>If I wanted to devote my time to study, living
on eight shillings per week, this was apparently a
suitable place for my purpose. Being my own barber,
doing my own plain cooking, and living abstemiously,
renouncing drink and the pleasures of
theatres, and other indoor entertainments, and retaining
tobacco as my sole luxury—I saw no reason
why this could not be done, at the same time making
up my mind that it had to be done.</p>
I had been here little more than a week, when I
set to work in earnest, and the result of two months'
diligence was a tragedy, written in blank verse, and
which I called "The Robber." Never dreaming
but what it would at once meet with success, owing
to its being full of action—a very difficult thing to
marry to verse, but which I thought was successfully
accomplished—I was somewhat taken aback
to have it returned to me on the third day, with
the manager's regret. Now it seemed that the Rowton
House had a bad name, owing to the great number
of criminals that were continually in the Police
Courts giving that address. Some of these lodgers,
for that very reason, had their correspondence addressed
to various small shops, where they were customers
for tobacco, papers, and groceries.</p>
<p>On having this tragedy returned, I, thinking of
this, came to the conclusion that no respectable person
would be likely to consider or respect any work,
or application for the same, that emanated from a
house of this name. I spoke to a gentleman with
whom I had become acquainted, on this difficult
subject, and he agreed with me, saying that such
were the true facts of the case. "But," said he,
after a thoughtful pause, "as your means are so
limited, and the shopkeepers charge one penny for
every letter they receive on a customer's behalf,
would it not be as well to still have your correspondence
addressed here, but in another way, of which
you probably have not heard? Give your address
as number one Churchyard Row, and, although people
will not recognise this house under that name,
yet the post office authorities will know it for its
proper address." This I did, without further question,
and "The Robber" was despatched on a second
journey. Fourteen days after my robber returned
to number one Churchyard Row. Bothering
my head to account for this, I came to the conclusion
that my tragedy had not been read farther
than the front page, and that a tragedy that was
born and bred in such a place as Churchyard Row—the
address being so appropriate to the nature of
the work—was enough to make any man, who had
the least sense of humour, condemn it with a laugh.
My conceit, at this time, was foolish in the extreme,
and yet I was near my thirtieth year.</p>
<p>The next work was a very long poem, in which
the beasts of the field, the birds of the air, and even
the fishes of the sea, met in a forest glade to impeach
man for his cruelty to them, and went on to describe
their journey at midnight to the nearest town, and
the vengeance they then took on the sleeping inhabitants.
My confidence in this work being accepted
could not have been altogether whole-hearted,
for the following reason: I made two copies of this
poem, and posted them simultaneously to different
publishers. I felt quite satisfied that one of these
would be accepted, but when a whole week had
passed on, and I had received no communication
from either publisher, I was then horrified to think
that they both were giving the poem such a consideration
that there was a probability that both of
them would accept it, and that both publishers would
call on me to make terms, perhaps at the very same
hour. This thought so preyed on my mind that I
did not feel at all easy until I had one of the copies
returned; but it was a great disappointment to receive
the second copy on the following day.</p>
<p>Thinking that short poems would stand a better
prospect of being accepted, I set to work on a hundred
sonnets, writing five, and sometimes six a day,
but when this number had been accomplished and
submitted, this work met with the same failure.
After this I wrote another tragedy, a comedy, a volume
of humorous essays, and hundreds, I believe,
of short poems. I was always writing at this time,
either beginning or finishing a work, but, strange to
say, none of this work was being sent out, but was
safely treasured, under the impression that it would
some day find its market.</p>
<p>After having had twelve months' practice, in the
last months of which no attempt had been made
at publication, I decided to make one more effort,
this time with a small volume of short poems. This
was immediately sent to a well known publisher,
who in a few days returned answer, offering to
publish at the author's expense, the sum needed being
twenty-five pounds. This success completely
turned my head. With all my heart I believed
that there would not be the least difficulty in procuring
money for such a grand purpose, and at once
wrote to several well known philanthropists, writing
six letters. Two of them never murmured, and
the other four set their secretaries to snap me up in
a few words. Exasperated at this I wrote to several
others, all my trouble being to no purpose.</p>
<p>Now, when I first entered this lodging house, I
had something like thirty shillings to the good, being
ahead of my income, and up to the present had
no reason for spending this amount. Could I put
this to some use? My mind had several plans, and
one in particular seemed good and feasible. I would
write three or four short poems on a page, get them
printed, and sell them from door to door. Two
thousand of these sheets, sold at threepence per
copy, would be twenty-five pounds, and, no doubt,
I could sell quite a hundred of these copies a day,
providing I went from house to house, from street
to street, from early morning till late at night. With
this object I lost no time in seeing a job printer,
and was told that thirty-five shillings would be
needed to defray expenses. This large amount disappointed
me not a little, but I paid a deposit and
went back to the house, where I lived and nearly
starved in saving four shillings that were short, which
was done in two weeks out of the sixteen shillings
that were to maintain me in food and lodgings for
fourteen days. At last, after great privation and sacrifice,
it was done, and I received from the printer
two thousand and some odd copies. Early the next
morning I was to be seen in the suburbs of London,
with my hands and pockets full of these copies,
going from door to door. I mentioned to the inhabitants
that I had had an offer from a publisher,
and that he could not undertake to publish my work
under twenty-five pounds. All these people did was
to stare, none of them seeming to understand, and
no one seemed inclined to ask questions. I had, I
believe, visited the doors of some thirty houses or
more, and had not sold one copy. Most of these
people were poor, and some had become sufficiently
interested to enquire the price of my copies, seeming
inclined and willing to trade with me in a small
way, but none of them seemed to be anxious to give
threepence for a sheet of paper which they did not
understand. At last I chanced upon a house that
was much larger than the others, at which place a
servant answered the door. I lost no time in relating
to her the true facts of the case, and she was
standing there silent and puzzled as to my meaning,
when her mistress called to her from the top
of the stairs—"Mary, who's there?" On which the
maiden gave answer in a halting voice—"Some man
selling some paper." At this there was a pause,
and then the same voice said, from the direction of
the stairs—"Give him this penny, and tell him to
go away," and, almost instantly, that copper coin
fell at the bottom of the stairs, and came rolling
rapidly towards us, as though aware of its mission.
The girl handed me this penny, which I took mechanically,
at the same time persisting in her taking
a copy to her mistress. That lady, hearing our
further conversation, and perhaps, guessing its import,
cried again, this time in a warning voice—"Mary,
mind you don't take anything from him."
This crushed the last hope, for I began to think that
if this lady, who might be a woman of some cultivation
and rich, could only see and read what had
been done, she might have at once, in her deep interest,
merged the whole twenty-five pounds, at the
same time befriending me for life. Alas! I have
been unfortunate all my life in believing that there
were a great number of rich people who were only
too eager to come forward and help talent in distress.</p>
<p>I was so disgusted at receiving this single penny,
and being so dismissed, that I at once put the sheets
back in my pockets and returned to the city. How
long would it take to get twenty-five pounds, at
this rate? What am I talking about! Money was
lost, not even this single copper was a gain; for this
penny-a-day experience had cost me three pennies
in tram fare, without mention of a more expensive
breakfast than I usually had.</p>
When I got back to the house I started, with the
fury of a madman, to burn the copies, and did not
rest until they were all destroyed, taking care not
to save one copy that would at any time in the future
remind me of my folly.</p>
<p>It was at this time that I came under the influence
of Flanagan. That gentleman, seeing me often
writing and apparently in deep thought, at once
gave me credit for more wisdom than I possessed.
He was a very illiterate man, having no knowledge
of grammar, punctuation or spelling. The upshot
of this acquaintance was that he informed me in
confidence that he was the lawful heir to nearly
half the county of Mayo, in Ireland; on which estate
was a house like the King's palace. In exchange
for this confidence I told him that I was the
author of a book of verse, which could not be published
except the author defrayed expenses. On
which Flanagan expressed much sympathy—more
especially when I read him aloud a few lines expressing
my disapproval of landowners and rich
tyrants—and promised sincerely to relieve me of all
difficulty providing, of course, that he made good
his claims to the estate. Flanagan then proposed
that I should put some of his arguments in grammatical
form, which he would immediately forward
to the proper authorities. This I began to do at
once, and some of Flanagan's arguments were so
strong that I am surprised at the present day at
being a free man. I told one eminent statesman
that he should retire and give place to a more honest
man, and another that though he was born in
Ireland and bore the name of an Irishman, yet he
was a traitor, for his heart had ever been in England.
Despite these powerful letters, the County
Mayo never to my knowledge changed hands, and
I was disappointed in my expectations, and Flanagan
grieved daily. At that time, I must confess,
I thoroughly believed Flanagan, perhaps through
being blinded by my own ambitions as an author.
Even at the present time, though I have cut down
the estate considerably, from half a county to half
an acre, and have taken out quite a number of windows
from the estate's residence—after doing this,
I still believe that poor Flanagan was robbed of a
cottage and garden by an avaricious landlord.</p>
<p>This was at the time of the Boer War and Flanagan's
long dark beard and slouched hat gave him the
exact appearance of one of those despised people.
Therefore we seldom took a walk together but what
we were stoned by boys in the street, and even grown
up people passed insulting remarks. In fact everywhere
we went we were regarded with suspicion.
Our clothes not being of the best, drew the attention
of attendants at museums and art galleries, and
we, being swarthy and alien in appearance, never
paused near a palace but what sentry and police
watched our every movement. One morning we
were passing through Whitehall, what time a regiment
of soldiers were being drilled and inspected
by a gentleman in a silk hat. Now Flanagan was
a man of great courage and never thought it necessary
to whisper. Therefore a vein of savage satire
broke in Flanagan's heart when he beheld a man
in a silk hat inspecting a troop of soldiers. "See!"
he cried, "there's a sight for the Boers." A number
of bystanders resented this remark, and there
were loud murmurs of disapproval. On which
Flanagan asked the following question: "Will the
best man in the crowd step forward?" But no
man seemed inclined to attempt Flanagan's chastisement,
without being assisted. Although I did
not entirely approve of him on this occasion, still,
seeing that the words could not be recalled, I was
quite prepared to be carried with him half dead on
a stretcher to the nearest hospital; for I liked the
man, and he certainly seemed to like me, since he
always took his walks alone when I did not accompany
him.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
